All right, so let's get started with our up functionality.
So the first thing that I would like to put in place is I would like to create a new package here called
data.
And inside the data package, we're going to store the data types that we're going to be using in our
application.
So the first one we need to do is we need to have a file, a data class for our user data.
OK, make sure this is a data class.
OK, so for the user data, we're going to have a few different variables so vile user ID of type string
Nullarbor and equals no.
The reason why we will add no liability to all the variables here are all the parameters is because
when we retrieve data from Firebase, Firebase requires us to be requires the data type to be to be
able to instantiated right to be able to have an empty constructor.
So we need to provide a value by default for each parameter that we pass and that value is going to
be null and we're going to handle this null ability later on in our application.
All right.
So we have a user ID, we have a name also string.
We have a user name without user name string.
Now keep in mind, the user name is unique, but the name is not necessarily unique.
OK, now we have a image URL.
Of type string.
OK.
I do believe that we need to set VARs here, so let me change that now because as I said, Firebase
needs to create an empty constructor and then set these values later on, so we need to be able to change
these.
So I'm going to do VARs from now on VAR Bio.
OK, so we need to store some bio information for each user string as well.
And then later on in our code, we're going to have a list of follow followings so people that we are
following.
OK, so I'm going to add the following.
There's going to be a list of strings, these strings are going to be user IDs, so list of string,
but the list itself can be null and in fact is null by default.
Also, let's added now we're going to need a function to convert this data type to a map so that we
can store it later on in our firestorm.
OK, so firestorm, the way it works is we have collections.
This is going to be, for instance, users.
Something like this.
OK, and here we have a document, so document is going to be the individual user that we're going to
have.
And the user will have some fields.
So for instance, user ID or let's say, user name.
John, whatever it needs to be, right, so this is the general structure of our firestorms, so we
have collections with documents.
These documents can contain fields or more collections.
OK.
I'm just going to remove this collection for now because it's going to be created automatically and
we actually want to test that it's correctly created.
And so, like I said, we need to convert this data type to a map so that it can be easily stored in
Firebase.
So fun to map.
Is going to be map of.
And here we covered everything, so we have main.
To Main.
We have username to username.
At the top, we have user I.D. to use our I.D..
OK, what else we have, we have image URL.
To image URL.
We have bio.
To bio and we have following.
To following.
OK, so we convert this to a map that we will use later on.
All right.
So we have our data type.
Now let's go to sign up screen and here when we click a button.
OK, we have this modifier padding and we can add, Oh, we have already the on click OK, so we can
use this on click to save GM Dot on sign up.
This is the method that we want.
And here we will pass the three parameters that we have.
So we have user name states dot value dot text.
We have email states.
Dot value dot text.
And we have passed a state dot value dot text.
OK, so we need to create this on sign up method.
So let's go to our view model and create this method.
So we're going to see fun on sign up.
And here we have user username of type, string, email of type, string and parcel of type string.
OK, so we have our own sign up if we have a look at the sign up screen.
This has solved our error here.
OK, so we have our own sign up.
So let's go ahead and put in place some variables at the top that will contain some information that
the viewers can access.
OK, so first of all, we're going to have Val signed in.
This is going to be the flag that tells us if we are signed in or not, this is going to be a mutable
state of.
And we're going to have false by default.
So we are not signed in by default.
We're going to have a flag for in progress.
OK, if the operation is in progress again, mutable state of false.
OK, so by default, we are not in progress.
And then we're going to have user data that's going to be mutable state of.
And here by default, we're going to have no.
But since we have no, we have to specify the type of data that we get user data.
Make sure you import the correct path here package.
I mean, to say, OK, so this is going to be knowable.
So we by default make it null.
OK, so we have our flags here.
The first thing we need to do, like we said, is we need to check whether that username is unique or
not.
OK, so here on sign up, we can start to access our users collection.
For that, let's go ahead, by the way and declare our constant Val users is going to be users.
This is the name of the collection that we're going to use later on.
All right.
So here, first of all, we can set the in-progress flag to true because we are starting some process
through Oh, sorry, but the value is going to be true.
Now we're going to access this particular username from Firebase Fire Store and check if it exists.
So we're going to say.
Keep in mind, that's how we access the Fire Store DVD collection.
Users dot where equal to.
So we're checking the field with the name username and we're checking username parameter dot get.
And here we will attach to listeners' add on success listener.
And we will have add on failure listener.
For the add on and on success listener, we have here eight documents, so the returned documents for
from this operation.
And we need to check whether this collection is empty.
So if this collection is empty, it means that we don't have the username in our database so we can
proceed if documents dot size greater than zero.
OK, so here we have a problem.
We have an exception that we need to let the user know that something has happened.
For that, we're going to create a function down below.
Now we're going to implement a bit later.
The function is going to be handle exception.
OK, and the handle exception function will take a couple of parameters, so first of all, an exception.
Of type exception that can be no and is not by default and a custom message.
That we want to pass to our user.
And that is an empty string by default.
So for now, we're not going to do anything here, but we're just going to reference this and we're
going to say handle exception.
We don't actually have an exception to pass, but we can send the custom message the user name already
exists.
OK, and we set the in progress dot value to false.
OK, so the username already exists.
We have to let the user know that and we can proceed.
We can let the user create a new username.
However, if this is false, so if the user name is not in the database already, then we can create
the user so we can say auth dot, create user name with email and password.
And here we pass the email and pass.
And on complete listener.
We have a task, so here we have two options if Task Dot is successful.
Then what do we do?
Well, first of all, we say signed in dot value is going to be true.
And then we can create profile.
Now else, it means we have an exception, so we handle the exception.
This time we do have access to the actual exceptions, so we can say task dot exception.
OK.
And we can set a custom message we can say site sign up failed.
OK, with that at the end, we can say in progress, dot value equals false.
So whatever happens here, the process has completed.
OK.
Right.
So we're going to pause here and we're going to continue on in the next video.